# Application
To create a Nalu application it is necessary to create an interface that extends IsApplication first. This interface needs the ```@Application```- and `Shells`-annotation. (The ```@Application```-and `Shells`-annotation can only be used on interfaces which extends ```IsApplication```.)

The attributes of the Application annotation are:

* **loader**: the application loader will be executed at application start. (see: [Application Loader](https://github.com/nalukit/nalu-parent/wiki/03.-Application-Loader). This attribute is optional.
* **startRoute**: The start route is the initial route that is called in case the application is called without a bookmark. If the application is called with a bookmark, the startRoute-attribute has no effect.
* **context**: the application context is a singleton that will be injected in every filter, controller and handler of the application (see: [Context](https://github.com/nalukit/nalu-parent/wiki/03.-Application-Context)).
* **routeError**: the error route is used to show an error page if Nalu detects some issues 

This is an example of an application class:

```Java
@Application(loader = MyLoader.class,
             startRoute = "/application/search",
             context = MyApplicationContext.class,
             routeError = "/errorShell/error")
interface MyApplication
    extends IsApplication {
}
```


## Start Route
The start route is the route, that will be used in case the application is called without a bookmark.

**Important note: a start route can not have a parameter!**

## Error Route
In case Nalu

* detects a routing loop
* an illegal route
* does not find a selector

Nalu will route the error page. The current error is stored in a error model inside the router. Using `this.router.getNaluErrorMessage()` will give access to the error object.

**Once an error is displayed, the error object should be reseted by calling `this.router.clearNaluErrorMessage()`.**

## Filter Annotation
Nalu allows you to use filters to stop routings in order to interrupt a route before it is handled and redirect to another route instead.

To create a filter, add the ```@Filter````-annotation to the application interface.

Nalu supports the use of more than one filter.

### Creating Filters
To create a filter, you need to:

1. implement the ```IsFilter```-interface
2. override the ```filter```-method: this method will allow to stop a routing or not. If filterEvent method returns false, then the route is stopped, otherwise, it is forwarded to the router.
3. override the ```redirect```-method: in case the routing is stopped, the route return by the method will be routed.
4. override the ```parameters```-method: the parameters of the route. In case there are no parameters, return ```String[]{}```.

Nalu will inject the context into a filter.

### Adding Filters
Once you have created a filter, you need to tell Nalu to use it. This will be done thanks to the ```@Filters```-annotation that annotates your application interface.

```Java
@Filters(filterClasses = MyFilter.class)
```

**The @Filters annotation will only be handle if the interface is also annotated with @Application!**

The annotation @Filters has the following attributes:

* **filterClasses**: set one or several filters to use. An instance will be created for each class specified.


## Debug Annotation
Nalu integrates a log feature that let you trace the routes handled and controllers used.

To activate the log feature, you need to annotate your application class with @Debug:
```Java
...
@Debug()
interface MyApplication
    extends IsApplication {
}
```

**The @Debug annotation will only be handle if the interface is also annotated with @Application!**

```@Debug```-annotation has the following attributes:

* **logLevel** (optional, default: SIMPLE): define the level of log:
    * SIMPLE (minimal logging)
    * DETAILED (more detailed logging)
* **logger**: define the class of the logger to use depending on the selected plugin

Every plugin provides a default logger. In case you do not want to create an own logger, use:

* **gwt-plugin-elemental2**: ```DefaultElemental2Logger```.class
* **gwt-plguin-gwt**: ```DefaultGWTLogger```.class

