# Trouble-Shooting
In some cases, you might run into troubles using Nalu. This side will provide solutions to common problems.

In case you will run into problems and you do not find a solution, feel free to use the [Nalu Gitter room](https://gitter.im/Nalukit42/Lobby).

## Common Mistakes
Here I will add a list of common mistakes made when using Nalu and which are hard to discover.

### Controller or Composite does not get added to the DOM
Sometimes, when building new components in your Nalu project, you will not see the new components without seeing a compile or runtime error.

#### Possible Solution:
Check, if you are using the ***bind***-method in the controller and forgot to call ***loader.continueLoading();***

For more information, see: [bind Method](https://github.com/NaluKit/nalu/wiki/14.-Controllers-&-Composites#bind-method-since-v121) 


## Compilation errors after updating Nalu
### Problem
After updating Nalu, compilation fails.
### Solutions
In this case please try the following steps:
* run `mvn clean verify`: After updating Nalu the old compiled sources have to be newly created.
* check the factory path that you also use the new processor version.

# Eclipse

In order to work with the annotations processor on eclipse is needed to activate manually:
- Right click over project (Package explorer) :arrow_right: **Properties** :arrow_right: **Java Compiler** :arrow_right: **Annotation Processing**. Activate "Enable project specific settings" and "Enable annotation processing".
- On "Factory Path" activate "Enable project specific settings" and add all jars with the annotation processors (in case of nalu *M2_REPO/com/github/nalukit/nalu-processor/2.0.0/nalu-processor-2.0.0.jar*).
- It will be less prone to failure if you include the entire maven classpath, but if want to have the minimal classpath and no source is generated you can check the log with the *Error Log view*. Normally some dependencies are missing from factory path. Add the necessary and reload the process.
